SSL and TLS are both cryptographic protocols used for securing internet communications, but TLS is the updated and more secure version of SSL. While the term "SSL" is still commonly used, especially for certificates, technically TLS is the protocol used by modern browsers and websites. 

Here's a more detailed breakdown:
SSL (Secure Sockets Layer): 
SSL was the original protocol designed for securing web communications.
It was developed by Netscape in 1995.
SSL has been superseded by TLS due to security vulnerabilities. 

TLS (Transport Layer Security):
TLS is the successor and replacement for SSL. 
It offers stronger encryption and improved security features. 
TLS is the protocol used by modern web browsers and websites for secure connections (HTTPS).
 
Key Differences:
Security:
TLS is generally considered more secure than SSL, especially older versions of SSL. 
Handshake:
The handshake process (the initial negotiation between client and server) is different in SSL and TLS. 
Cipher Suites:
TLS supports newer and more secure cipher suites (sets of algorithms) than SSL. 
Message Integrity:
TLS uses HMAC for message integrity, which is more secure than the MAC used in SSL. 
Key Material Generation:
TLS improves the generation of key material compared to SSL. 
Alert Messages:
TLS provides more detailed alert messages, which can be useful for diagnosing connection issues. 


HMAC stands for Hash-based Message Authentication Code. It's a cryptographic technique used to verify the integrity and authenticity of a message by ensuring it hasn't been altered during transit. HMAC uses a cryptographic hash function and a secret key to generate a message authentication code, which is then included with the message. 
Here's a more detailed explanation:
How HMAC Works:
1. Secret Key:
The sender and receiver must share a secret key, which is crucial for both the sender to generate the HMAC and the receiver to verify it. 
2. Message:
The sender has the message they want to transmit. 
3. Hash Function:
A cryptographic hash function (like SHA-256) is used to process the message and the secret key. 
4. HMAC Generation:
The sender uses the hash function and the secret key to produce the HMAC, which is a unique, fixed-size output. 
5. Transmission:
The sender sends both the original message and the generated HMAC to the receiver. 
6. Verification:
The receiver uses the same secret key and hash function to compute the HMAC on the received message. They then compare the computed HMAC with the one received from the sender. If the two HMACs match, it verifies that the message hasn't been tampered with and that it came from the expected sender. 
Why Use HMAC?
Integrity:
HMAC ensures the message hasn't been altered during transit, as any change would result in a different HMAC. 
Authenticity:
HMAC verifies the sender's identity, as the receiver can only compute the correct HMAC if they know the secret key, which should only be shared with the intended parties. 
Efficiency:
HMAC is computationally efficient and can be used with a wide range of hash functions. 
Example:
Imagine two parties, Alice and Bob, want to exchange a message. They share a secret key. Alice computes the HMAC for the message using the secret key and sends both the message and the HMAC to Bob. Bob uses the same secret key to compute the HMAC for the received message. If the two HMACs match, Bob knows the message is authentic and hasn't been tampered with. 
In essence, HMAC acts as a digital signature for a message, ensuring its integrity and authenticity by using a shared secret key and a cryptographic hash function. 

What is the difference between HTTP and SSL?
HTTPS: What are the differences? HTTPS is HTTP with encryption and verification. The only difference between the two protocols is that HTTPS uses TLS (SSL) to encrypt normal HTTP requests and responses, and to digitally sign those requests and responses.



HTTPS is indeed a combination of HTTP and TLS (or SSL, which is now largely replaced by TLS).
HTTPS is just HTTP over a TLS/SSL connection.

first perform the tls hand shaking over a tcp (socket) connection, and aquire the public key.

after that the data are sent after encrypting using this public key over http in case of https connection.
if we use Mqtt communication then the connection will be tls over mqtt

In SSL, public and private keys are part of a key pair used for secure communication. The public key is shared with anyone who wants to send a message to the private key owner, while the private key is kept secret and is used to decrypt messages encrypted with the corresponding public key. 
Public Key:
Purpose: Used for encrypting data and verifying digital signatures.
Availability: Shared publicly and can be freely distributed. 
Example: When someone wants to send a secure message to you, they use your public key to encrypt it. 
Private Key:
Purpose: Used for decrypting data encrypted with the corresponding public key and signing digital signatures.
Availability: Kept secret and must never be shared.
Example: Only the owner of the private key can decrypt messages encrypted with the corresponding public key. 


Doing Tls handshaking entirely by hand (raw tcp) would require you to understand the full TLS 1.2 or 1.3 spec and write packet-level code.

below is the first initiated backet by a client (sent over tcp) to a server to initiate tls communication 

// TLS Record Header (Content Type: Handshake, Version: TLS 1.0, Length)
    val clientHello = byteArrayOf(
        // Record Layer
        0x16, // Content Type: Handshake (22)
        0x03, 0x01, // Version: TLS 1.0 (for compatibility)
        0x00, 0x31, // Length: 49 bytes following

        // Handshake Layer
        0x01, // Handshake Type: ClientHello
        0x00, 0x00, 0x2d, // Length: 45 bytes
        0x03, 0x03, // TLS Version: 1.2

        // Random (32 bytes)
        *ByteArray(32) { 0x01 },

        // Session ID Length
        0x00,

        // Cipher Suites Length (2 bytes), then Suites (2 bytes each)
        0x00, 0x04,
        0x00, 0x2f, // TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
        0x00, 0x35, // TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA

        // Compression Methods Length
        0x01,
        0x00, // null compression

        // Extensions Length (2 bytes) - omitted here for simplicity
    )

